## vip_feed.py

### Basics

This file, in its current form, parses character-delimited files and writes the data to a valid <acronym title="Voting Information Project">VIP</acronym> feed. It requires a <tt>config.ini</tt> file with these required sections:

<dl>
  <dt>Main</dt>
  <dd>Defines general configuration values for the script to function</dd>
  <dt>DataSource</dt>
  <dd>Defines either a data directory or a database connection</dd>
  <dt>Header</dt>
  <dd>Defines the static data for the head of the <acronym title="Voting Information Project">VIP</acronym> feed</dd>
</dl>

In addition to these general requirements, the resultant <acronym title="Voting Information Project">VIP</acronym> feed is built from a set of defined templates, the location of which is defined in the _Main_ section of the <tt>config.ini</tt>. The templates contain fragments of [<acronym title="Voting Information Project">VIP</acronym> schema](http://code.google.com/p/election-info-standard/downloads/list "Voting Information Project Downloads Page") elements. For example:

    <street_segment id="{STREET_SEGMENT_ID}">
      <start_house_number>{START_HOUSE_NUMBER}</start_house_number>
      <end_house_number>{END_HOUSE_NUMBER}</end_house_number>
      <start_apartment_number>{START_APARTMENT_NUMBER}</start_apartment_number>
      <end_apartment_number>{END_APARTMENT_NUMBER}</end_apartment_number>
      <odd_even_both>{ODD_EVEN_BOTH}</odd_even_both>
      <non_house_address>
        <street_direction>{STREET_DIRECTION}</street_direction>
        <street_name>{STREET_NAME}</street_name>
        <street_suffix>{STREET_SUFFIX}</street_suffix>
        <address_direction>{ADDRESS_DIRECTION}</address_direction>
        <state>{STATE}</state>
        <city>{CITY}</city>
        <zip>{ZIP}</zip>
      </non_house_address>
      <precinct_id>{PRECINCT_ID}</precinct_id>
      <precinct_split_id>{PRECINCT_SPLIT_ID}</precinct_split_id>
    </street_segment>

Each placeholder (e.g. <tt>{STREET_SEGMENT_ID}</tt>) represents a column from the character-delimited file and is substituted with the appropriate data as the data file is parsed.

### Data

The data files should be delimited with a character that would never appear in the field data. The first line of the file should contain the fieldnames and there should be one file per <acronym title="Voting Information Project">VIP</acronym> schema structure (e.g. to create the street segments, all the necessary data should be contained within a single file).

#### Locality Data File Example

The following data is pipe-delimited:

    ID|NAME|STATE_ID|TYPE|ELECTION_ADMINISTRATION_ID
    11001|Adams|8|County|16001
    11002|Alamosa|8|County|16002

The <tt>ID</tt> field should exist in each file and be unique across all given data. This is due to the <acronym title="eXtensible Markup Language">XML</acronym> schema specification that requires all <tt>id</tt> attributes to be unique across the entire document. Though the fieldnames can be named differently than the <acronym title="Voting Information Project">VIP</acronym> schema element names, this is the suggested method for clarity. In addition, if different names are used, the template placeholders must reflect the fieldnames.